All right.
So we concluded our previous lesson by observing a little bit of a problem, and that is that our team's
menu item is listed twice on our navigation menu, and that is to be expected because we have it declared
twice.
The first is right here in our separate ally, and the second is during our actual iteration with our
V4 directive over our menu items array, which also includes the team's value.
Now the reason why we kept this original list item is because it's actually slightly different from
all subsequent list items in that it doesn't have this M9 utility class because we don't want any margin
on the left of our first last item and only our first list item.
So we have a little bit of a problem here in that if we got rid of this one, we would we would correctly
render those six menu items, but we would add some additional margin on the left of the first one.
And that's not what we want.
Right?
So how can we solve this problem?
How can we have a distinct success class on our very first menu item and a totally different sizes class
and every subsequent menu item or ally in this case?
Well, one way to think about it is to almost try to get these allies as close to each other as possible.
And one way that we can do that is to imagine that we have an additional class on our very first ally,
the teams ally.
And that class can be something like an ML zero, the ML zero tail one class applies a margin left of
zero pixels.
That's basically the same thing as doing nothing at all.
But at least in this case, we have kind of assigned an explicit access class to each one of our list
items.
We're now going to bring these allies closer to each other in terms of how they look.
And I'm going to show you how that's going to help us in just a second.
Of course, our ultimate goal is to remove this list item entirely and just allow us to render six list
items using the V4 directive.
But in order to do that, we're going to need to merge the logic here and the logic here.
All right.
And here's how we're going to do this.
The first thing we're going to do is open up our tailwind configuration file.
We're going to need to modify some settings here to enable us to use some special success properties
within our actual template.
So CSC actually has this logic built into it where we can apply a class, but only to the first element
or the first child element within a group.
And that's exactly what we want here.
Our list items are child elements within our larger unordered list, and we want to apply a distinct
CSS class to just our first element, but not the other ones.
All right.
And that's the asset class deals with margin.
Okay.
So here's what we're going to do in this file.
What we want to look for is this variance section, which has an extend object.
And what we're going to do here is we're going to write some syntax that is going to enable tailwind
to generate some additional utility classes for us that it doesn't give us by default just when the
library starts up.
So we're going to ask it to generate some more CC classes.
Knowing what we now know about having to need to apply only access classes to the first element within
a group.
So right here, I'm going to add a key of margin because we want to enable this related to margin classes.
Star M classes is like an AL for margin left and M are for margin right, etc. And here I'm going to
provide an array and in the array I'm going to provide a string of first.
All right.
And that is all we need to do in this file.
This is going to enable us to apply a different margin class to the first element in our iteration.
All right.
We're going to see the syntax for this in just a second.
As always, whenever you modify your tailwind config file, if you run into any kind of issues at the
end of this lesson, I recommend shutting down your view server and starting it up, and that just ensures
that these changes are registered by The View.
SEELYE All right.
So let's come back now to our actual main nav class or main nav component right here.
And we can go ahead and remove this because we're no longer going to need it.
But remember, we still need to account for this l0 class that we want to apply to the first flight
and to the first flight only.
So right here, here's what the syntax is going to look like.
Remember, I need my m l0 class but only for the first one.
And what we can do now is add this first colon m zero.
The reason we're able to use first here is because we added that setting in our tailwind config file
just a second ago and otherwise MLA zero is your regular typical tailwind class.
It adds zero pixels of margin on the left side.
So what we're saying here is for every single ally that we create with our V4 directive, as we iterate,
we want to apply a class of EML nine.
The only exception is our first ally where we want to attach the CC class eml zero from tailwind instead.
All right.
And that's going to do the exact same thing.
So when I save this and I head back to my browser, you're going to see we now have everything as expected.
We have our six menu items that they're each represented only once.
And if I right click here and inspect it, we're going to see the differences in margin.
So right here, you'll notice that we still have all of the class supplied to each one.
Right?
We can see mine and first Emma zero.
But View and Tailwind and CCS can identify which element is actually first and apply the ML zero class
to only that.
So you'll notice as I navigate through the second and the third and the left and the fourth class,
you'll notice that we have margin on the left and I can even show you this computed property and show
that it is 36 pixels as I navigate here in comparison when I get back to my first class, if you'll
notice, we have no actual margin on the left hand side.
That again is being added by the ML zero class, which we've only applied to the first ally in this
list.
Again, it doesn't need margin because we have margin on the top level NAV that is holding all of these
list items together.
So we don't want to add some additional spacing between that orange block and the start of teams.
All right.
So that is how we combined tailwind and some complex access kind of identifiers in order to change up
the tailwind classes that we apply to various children within our you.
All right.
So now we solved that problem, and we can have a single V4 iteration to take care of all of our menu
items.
Pretty cool.
All right.
That's all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see in the next one.